[TT-16831] docs: add OpenTelemetry metrics pages and restructure metrics section (#1808)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: api-management/traces/new-relic.mdx

---
title: "Send Tyk Traces to New Relic"
description: "Step-by-step guide to connect Tyk Gateway distributed traces to New Relic using the OpenTelemetry Collector."
keywords: "Distributed Tracing, New Relic, OpenTelemetry, OTLP, OTel Collector, Tyk Gateway, APM, Observability"
sidebarTitle: "New Relic"
---

> This guide provides a step-by-step procedure to integrate New Relic with Tyk Gateway via the OpenTelemetry Collector. At the end of this guide, you will be able to visualize traces and metrics from your Tyk Gateway on the New Relic console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to set up [New Relic](https://newrelic.com/)  to ingest OpenTelemetry traces via the OpenTelemetry Collector (OTel Collector) using Docker. At the end of this guide, you will be able to visualize traces and metrics from your Tyk Gateway on the New Relic console.
```

## Prerequisites

- [Docker installed on your machine](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
- [New Relic Account](https://newrelic.com/)
- New Relic API Key
- Gateway v5.2.0 or higher
- OTel Collector [docker image](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/opentelemetry-collector)

## Steps for Configuration

### Step 1. Obtain New Relic API Key

    1. Navigate to your New Relic Console.

>     2. Go to `Profile → API keys`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    2. Go to **Profile → API keys**.
```

    ```bash
    93qwr27e49e168d3844c5h3d1e878a463f24NZJL
    ```

### Step 2. Configuration Files

    **OTel Collector Configuration YAML**

    1. Create a file named `otel-collector-config.yml` under the configs directory.
    2. Copy the following template into that file:

    ```yaml expandable
    receivers:
      otlp:
        protocols:
          http:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4318
          grpc:
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4317
    processors:
      batch:
    exporters:
      otlphttp:
        endpoint: "<YOUR-ENVIRONMENT-STRING>"
        headers:
          api-Key: "<YOUR-NEW-RELIC-API-KEY>"
    extensions:
      health_check:
      pprof:
        endpoint: :1888
      zpages:
        endpoint: :55679
    service:
      extensions: [pprof, zpages, health_check]
      pipelines:
        traces:
          receivers: [otlp]
          processors: [batch]
          exporters: [otlphttp]
    ```

    - Replace `<YOUR-ENVIRONMENT-STRING>` with your specific New Relic endpoint (`https://otlp.nr-data.net` for US or `https://otlp.eu01.nr-data.net` for EU).
    - Replace `<YOUR-NEW-RELIC-API-KEY>` with the API key obtained in Step 1.

    **Docker Compose configuration**

>     1. Create a file named docker-compose.yml at the root level of your project directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Create a file named `docker-compose.yml` at the root level of your project directory.
```

    2. Paste the following code into that file:

    ```yaml expandable
    version: "3.9"
    services:
      otel-collector:
        image: otel/opentelemetry-collector:latest
        volumes:
          - ./otel-collector-config.yml:/etc/otel-collector.yml
        command: ["--config=/etc/otel-collector.yml"]
        networks:
          - tyk
        ports:
          - "1888:1888" # pprof extension
          - "13133:13133" # health_check extension
          - "4317:4317" # OTLP gRPC receiver
          - "4318:4318" # OTLP http receiver
          - "55670:55679" # zpages extension

    networks:
      tyk:
    ```

    <Note>
    Replace the variable fields with the relevant data.
    </Note>

### Step 3. Testing and Verifying Traces

    1. Run `docker-compose up -d` to start all services.

    2. Initialize your Tyk environment.

>     3. Create a simple `httpbin` API using Tyk Dashboard. You can follow the [Tyk Dashboard documentation](/api-management/gateway-config-managing-classic#create-an-api) for more information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Create a simple API and deploy it to your Tyk Gateway. You can follow the [Tyk Dashboard documentation](/api-management/gateway-config-managing-classic#create-an-api) for more information.
```

    4. Send requests to the API using cURL or Postman.

    5. Open New Relic Console.

>     6. Navigate to `APM & Services → Services - OpenTelemetry → tyk-gateway`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    6. Navigate to **APM & Services → Services - OpenTelemetry → tyk-gateway**.
```

        <img src="/img/distributed-tracing/opentelemetry/new-relic-services.png" alt="New Relic Services" />

    7. Wait for about 5 minutes for the data to populate.

        Traces and graphs should now be visible on your New Relic console.

        <img src="/img/distributed-tracing/opentelemetry/new-relic-metrics.png" alt="New Relic Metrics" />

        <Note>
        If traces are not showing, try refreshing the New Relic dashboard.
        </Note>

You have successfully integrated New Relic with Tyk Gateway via the OpenTelemetry Collector. You can now monitor and trace your APIs directly from the New Relic console.

## Troubleshooting

> - If the traces aren't appearing, double-check your API key and endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the traces aren't appearing:
- Double-check your API key and endpoints.
```
